Prometheus translation modes (#4533)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/compatibility/prometheus_and_openmetrics.md

metric points, the exporter SHOULD warn the user through error logging.

The Name of an OTLP metric MUST be added as the
[Prometheus Metric Name](https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#comments-help-text-and-type-information).

> Prometheus naming conventions require metric names to match the regex: `[a-zA-Z_:]([a-zA-Z0-9_:])*`. Invalid characters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus naming conventions encourage metric names to match the regex: `[a-zA-Z_:]([a-zA-Z0-9_:])*`. Discouraged characters
```

> in the metric name SHOULD be replaced with the `_` character, aiming for compatibility with Prometheus conventions. Multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the metric name SHOULD be replaced with the `_` character by default, aiming for compatibility with Prometheus conventions. Multiple
```

> consecutive `_` characters SHOULD be replaced with a single `_` character.

Reviewer: @ywwg do we want to keep this in the spec?  Is this what the prometheus/common escaping library does?

The Unit of an OTLP metric point SHOULD be converted to the equivalent unit in Prometheus when possible. This includes:

* Converting from abbreviations to full words (e.g. "ms" to "milliseconds").
* Dropping the portions of the Unit within brackets (e.g. {packet}). Brackets MUST NOT be included in the resulting unit. A "count of foo" is considered unitless in Prometheus.
* Special case: Converting "1" to "ratio".
* Converting "foo/bar" to "foo_per_bar".

The resulting unit SHOULD be added to the metric as
[UNIT metadata](https://github.com/prometheus/OpenMetrics/blob/v1.0.0/specification/OpenMetrics.md#metricfamily).

> A suffix to the metric name MAY be added unless the metric name already ends with the

Reviewer: Given we are doing escaping by default above, should we make this a SHOULD?  Or 
"SHOULD, by default,"?

Reviewer 2: I agree, in general the vibe of the spec is that people SHOULD do these things, but MAY do something else.

String Attribute values are converted directly to Metric Attributes, and
non-string Attribute values MUST be converted to string attributes following
the [attribute specification](../common/README.md#attribute).  Prometheus

> naming conventions required to match the following regex:

Reviewer: I had previously recommended: "Prometheus naming conventions encourage metric names to match the regex: `[a-zA-Z_:]([a-zA-Z0-9_:])*`. Discouraged characters...", but it looks like that was reverted?

Author: Good catch, I don't know how the revert happened 🤔
